HERMES 1.3.3 (c)1998 Christian Nentwich (brn) (c.nentwich@cs.ucl.ac.uk)
and quite a few assembler routines (c) Glenn Fielder (gaffer@gaffer.org)

This library and all the files enclosed in this package are free software
under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License (LGPL). Please
refer to the included file COPYING.LIB for the exact terms.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

WARNING: This file may be partly outdated. I do update it with the newest
information but some sections need some brushing up.


Table of Contents

	1. Introduction

	2. Usage

	3. Where to get the newest HERMES

        4. Prerequisites
	     Where to get NASM (not for Linux anymore!!)

	5. Libraries that use HERMES

	6. How to submit bug reports




1. Introduction

  HERMES, named after the messenger of the gods, is a library whose 
only purpose is to convert graphic data from one pixel format to another in
the fastest possible way. It was born out of the PTC library. One day the
pixel format routines were removed from PTC and made a library on their own
to speed up development and bug fixing and to encourage other people to use
these routines and contribute to them.

  What we have now is an extremely portable library (it doesn't do any I/O,
so it should compile on a GameBoy :) that can be compiled using either a C
or a C++ compiler, depending on what code you use it with. It is being 
developed using both GNU C and GNU C++ in order to ensure maximum
compatibility with both languages.

  Er, before I forget it, HERMES will also do surface clearing. And it will
do it FAST (even with x86 and MMX routines if you're on those platforms)



2. Where to get the newest HERMES

  The HERMES homepage is at 

	http://clanlib.org/hermes

  Both stable releases and development versions can be found there. There is
also a mailing list for general correspondance and a CVS server that is used
for shared development. Have a look. :)



3. Usage

  HERMES isn't very useful on its own. It wasn't meant to be, it is developed
to be part of bigger graphics libraries. Check out the next point on 
libraries that use HERMES. Or, alternatively, maybe you wrote your own
graphics library that holds an offscreen buffer and wants its contents
copied to the screen. Then HERMES is your friend as well.

  Maybe you will find Hermes useful in a program of yours.. If so, send me
some e-mail, I'll be quite interested to hear what it is :)

  The API of Hermes can be found in docs/api.



4. Prerequisites

  First of all, you need a compiler. The library has been known to compile
on the following, but it should compile on any system with a proper ANSI C
compiler:
    
    - Linux, RedHat 5.0 with gcc 2.7.2
    - Linux, RedHat 5.0 with pgcc 1.0.3a
    - Linux, RedHat 5.1 with egcs 1.0.2
    - Linux, RedHat 5.1 with pgcc 1.1b
    - Linux, Mandrake 6.0 with pgcc (egcs 1.1.2)
    - FreeBSD 2.2.7 with gcc 2.7.2		(read INSTALL.BSD)  
    - Microsoft Window, Visual C++ 6 		(read INSTALL.Win32)
    - DOS, with WATCOM C v11			(read INSTALL.DOS)
    - DOS, with DJGPP v2 (gcc 2.8.1)		(read INSTALL.DOS)
    - BeOS for Intel, with ? (has been reported to compile)
    - IRIX 6.3 with gcc 2.7.2       | Support for those had to be suspended
    - Solaris with gcc 2.7.2        | because of faulty automake / libtool
    - SunOS with gcc 2.7.2          | that only work with GNU utilities...

  If you want assembler routines with Watcom C or Visual C, you need to
download and install NASM. Get it from

	http://www.cryogen.com/Nasm

The latest version is 0.97. Nasm is freely available and is quite a good
assembler.

!!!  Please note that NASM is NOT required anymore for assembler support 
     under Linux or DJGPP !!!



5. Libraries that use HERMES

  - Prometheus Truecolour (PTC) obviously uses HERMES. You can get this
    nice C++ library at http://www.gaffer.org/ptc. Or you can download
    the X11 version at http://www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/students/c.nentwich/ptc

  - Simple DirectMedia Layer (SDL) uses the MMX assembler routines of HERMES.

  - ClanLib (http://www.clanlib.org) uses Hermes for format conversion.

  - It could be you! :)


6. How to submit bug reports

  Well, first of all, make sure it *really* is HERMES's fault, not the fault
  of the library you are using.

  Then go to the Sourceforge Bug Tracker located at:

    http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=32920&atid=406723
 
  And enter all your information in a "New Bug Submission".
  (make sure Category is set to Hermes!)